- Texture coordinates range from `0` to `1` in the `x` and `y` axis
- Texture coordinates start at `(0,0)` for the lower left corner of a texture image to `(1,1)` for the upper right corner of a texture image.
#### Texture Wrapping

- GL_REPEAT: The default behavior for textures. Repeats the texture image.
- GL_MIRRORED_REPEAT: Same as GL_REPEAT but mirrors the image with each repeat.
- GL_CLAMP_TO_EDGE: Clamps the coordinates between `0` and `1`. The result is that higher coordinates become clamped to the edge, resulting in a stretched edge pattern.
- GL_CLAMP_TO_BORDER: Coordinates outside the range are now given a user-specified border color.
#### Mipmaps
- if a triangle is far away from screen , then it is waste of applying high res texture
- soln: mipmaps
- calculates low res textures 
#### loading textures
- using  `stb_image.h`

### workflow:
- 1. load texture to gpu
	- gen texbuffer on gpu `glGenTextures`
	- bind it to curr context `glBindTexture`
	- set wrapping props
	- load image with `stb_image.h`
	- generate texture with the data `glTexImage2D`
	- generate mipmap `glGenerateMipmap`
- 2. set texture coords and load to gpu
	- add to vertex data and add another attribute
	- accept in vert shader and pass to frag shader
- 3. use  the texture in frag shader
	-  `uniform sampler2D ourTexture;` directly assigns texture
- voila!

but why uniform has texture ? we didn't even assign it!
- default is 0
- we can assign more textures using `glUniform1i`
- `glActiveTexture(GL_TEXTURE0); // activate the texture unit first before binding texture`
- `glBindTexture(GL_TEXTURE_2D, texture);`
```
glUniform1i(glGetUniformLocation(ourShader.ID, "texture1"), 0); // set it manually ourShader.setInt("texture2", 1); // or with shader class
```

